Fire Emblem Guide

Game Organization:
Players take turns moving their units around the board. The last army still alive at the end of the game win.

Organization of a turn :
The player can perform different actions with each of his units in the order he wishes. The 4 actions
possible actions are :
- pass his turn.
- move. The squares where the unit can move without being attacked by an enemy unit are marked in blue,
the squares where the unit can move but can be attacked by an opponent are marked in red,
the green squares mark the position of allied units.
- attack. (see combat section)
- heal an ally.
Only units using a stick can heal their allies.
(It is possible to move AND to attack or heal)
If a unit has neither attacked nor healed it is possible to cancel its action.

Combat:
When a unit is selected and placed on an enemy unit in its field of movement a forecast of the
consequences of the fight is displayed. The damage of a unit is calculated as the difference between the defender's
with the sum of the strength and power of the attacker's weapon, bonuses can be added to this damage
like the bonus of the weapon triangle or the special. (when calculating the damage, the defense is replaced by the
resistance in case of an attack with a magic weapon).

The special corresponds to an ability that increases or reduces the damage of a unit.
Each blow that the unit receives the unit lowers its special counter by 1.
When the counter of the unit falls to 0 the special is activated.

When a unit is attacked and its weapon has a range that allows it, it retaliates.
attacker after being attacked.
If a unit's speed is 5 points higher than its opponent's then
it will perform a double strike (it will attack its opponent a second time after the opponent has returned fire).
When a unit's Life Points drop to 0 it dies.
(If the unit dies before it can retaliate, then the unit's retaliation does not take place).

Weapons:
Each weapon has different characteristics depending on its type and material:
- Power (affects damage)
- Weight (affects speed)

The weapons have different ranges:
- The sword, the spear and the axe have a range of 1 square.
- The bow and the staff have a range of 2 squares.
The staff does magic damage (damage calculation with resistance). The other weapons do physical damage
(damage calculation with defense).

The triangle of weapons has a damage bonus of +20% or -20% depending on the weapons used during the fight:
- The sword has the advantage over the axe.
- The axe has the advantage over the spear.
- The spear has the advantage over the sword.
Bows do 50% more damage to flying units.
Sticks can restore life to allies (within their max HP).

Units:
Each unit has different characteristics of HP, attack, defense, resistance, speed.
The weapon that the unit will use will vary its characteristics during a fight.

The units have different types of movement:
- Infantry movement.
The unit can't move on water and mountain squares and is moderately slowed down by obstacles.
- The cavalry move.
The unit cannot move on the water and mountain squares,
it moves quickly and is slowed down and is strongly slowed down by the obstacles.
- Armored movement.
The unit cannot move on water and mountain squares and moves slowly.
- The flying move. No obstacles stop the unit which moves quickly.

Terrain:
The different terrains can give bonuses when moving.
